1. CALTECH (Done)
* Have you had any extenuating circumstances (such as limited course selection, inconsistent grades, or disruptions), that have affected your coursework but that are not described elsewhere in your application? If so, tell us about them here. ( [a]max 150words)


* Why did you choose your proposed area of interest? If you selected ‘other’, what topics are you interested in pursuing?* ( max 200 words)


The idea of uncovering the countless opportunities that lie in space-exploration sparked a deep passion for me in the field. Attending a webinar in 2021 featuring the CEO of a prominent satellite development company based in India further fueled my drive to assemble a passionate team to delve into the captivating world of space sciences and technology.


Studying Electrical Engineering aligns perfectly with my goal to innovate in satellite technology. Developing my future Space Payload requires a deeper understanding of Electronics. It is vital for designing efficient satellite systems tailored for miniaturization, understanding satellite components and their functions, and creating reliable electronic layouts and connections to ensure optimal system performance. This includes gaining expertise in satellite components, their functions, and applications and working with different microcontrollers and sensors for data collection. Additionally, a solid grasp of the subject would also improve my ability to program satellite subsystems, including optimising the data processing workflow and ensuring precise satellite orientation, which are both vital for the satellite’s survival in space. Moreover, something specific about Caltech, the university’s rigorous program and cutting-edge research at Kavli Nanoscience Institute would also directly support my goal of miniaturising space technology.




* Your STEM Present: Curiosity: Regardless of your STEM interest listed above, take this opportunity to nerd out and talk to us about whatever STEM rabbit hole you have found yourself falling into. Be as specific or broad as you would like.* (150 words)


My increasing interest in participating in space-sciences made me channel my passion for the field into founding VisionCosmos, a team focused on building miniaturized space technology.
Founding VisionCosmos has been hugely instrumental in honing my skills in team-building, communication, networking, and perseverance. Our most significant achievement was launching our suborbital payload, VCL-1, from Spaceport Nova Scotia last year. Our miniaturized technologies will help advance life on Earth through electronics and space-resilient technologies, STEM education, understanding our planet's origin, and supporting the future lunar economy.


My academic choices reflect my passion for exploration and innovation in space technology. My high school journey, filled with efforts concentrated in the fields of space-exploration, inspired me to delve into STEM courses and explore those courses to align with my interest.


* Your STEM Past: Prior Experiences: At Caltech, we investigate some of the most challenging, fundamental problems in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. We are interested in learning more about your engagement with STEM. 
Please share two STEM-related experiences:
1. Tell us how you initially found your interest and passion for science or any STEM topic and how you have pursued or developed this interest or passion.*
(Max 200 words)


India’s Chandrayaan-2 lunar-landing attempt in 2019 ignited my passion for exploration and innovation in space-technology, which has since guided my academic choices. Thus, my high-school journey was filled with inquisitiveness and a quest to know more, which inspired me to delve into STEM. This brought in the passion for space engineering, which has strengthened into a stronger ambition over time. 
One life event that has prepared me for success in college is my experience as a founder and leader of VisionCosmos, a student-led team dedicated to exploring space-technology. This experience significantly shaped my ability to connect with others and has honed my skills in team-building, communication, networking, and perseverance. Managing a technical project allowed me to develop my technical and organisational skills.
On 6th July-2023, our team successfully launched a suborbital payload from Spaceport Nova Scotia. The project involved extensive collaboration between entities from Saudi Arabia, the UAE, and Canada, and outreach to various launch providers such as Exos Aerospace and the Swedish Space Corporation. Securing a launch opportunity for the payload took eight months, something that carried an important lesson for me: persistence leads to opportunities.
Reference News article: https://financialpost.com/pmn/business-wire-news-releases-pmn/visioncosmos-saudi-arabia-maritime-launch-services-precious-payload-and-al-najmx-join-forces-for-groundbreaking-international-space-mission-aboard-arbalest-rocketrys-suborbital-vehicle-marking-f








2.  Tell us about a STEM-related experience from the last few years and share how and why it inspired your curiosity.* (Max 200 words)


One of my transformative STEM experiences was founding VisionCosmos, a student-led team dedicated to exploring space technology. Our most significant achievement was successfully launching a suborbital payload, VCL-1, from Spaceport Nova Scotia. This project was born from my fascination with space exploration, ignited by the Chandrayaan-2 lunar landing attempt.


Like the one we launched, a suborbital payload is used to conduct scientific experiments in microgravity or harsh environments. Apart from the technical aspects of the payload, the launch involved extensive collaborative efforts between three countries: Saudi Arabia, UAE, and Canada. 


The payload was built entirely from scratch, and I was involved hands-on with its electronics connections, component layout, soldering, and programming.


Through this experience, I developed my understanding of satellite systems, strengthened my problem-solving skills, and established a fascination for how space technology can advance life on Earth. Thanks to the lessons learned during the payload development and collaboration phases, we can go ahead with developng advanced miniaturized space technology. These will help advance life on Earth through technology-miniaturization, STEM education, understanding our planet's origin, and supporting the future lunar-economy.


   * Creativity in Action: The creativity, inventiveness, and innovation of Caltech's students, faculty, and researchers have won Nobel Prizes and put rovers on Mars. But Techers also imagine smaller-scale innovations every day, from new ways to design solar cells to how to 3D-print dorm decor to experimenting in the kitchen. How have you been a creator, inventor, or innovator in your own life?*   (250 words)
My passion for space led me to found VisionCosmos, a team made up of members who joined as high school students studying in Saudi Arabia before going on to study at U.S. universities, dedicated to exploring space technology. This endevour allowed me to work on a suborbital payload project. Reflection and learning from past experiences helped me build the payload entirely from scratch and also troubleshoot potential issues that flared up, thus developing skills in electronics architecture, circuit board design, and miniaturization along the way.
Collaborating internationally to launch a suborbital payload from Spaceport Nova Scotia involved forming healthy connections and collaborations. Being a part of such a collaboration was an excellent opportunity to grow, learn, and experience.
This experience was about growing as a leader, something that will be essential for leading future breakthroughs in this exciting field.


The experiences triggered my passion for space technology and shaped me as an individual and also the kind of engineer I would like to become. I’m sure what I learned from VisionCosmos will help me advance in space design and development. The time I spent working on payload development taught me to work under challenging conditions and also understand the intricacies of space technology, thus pushing me to explore beyond the boundaries and contribute meaningfully to space exploration.


   *  Caltech's Values: Caltech's values include respect for a diversity of thoughts and ideas. How have you cultivated this value in your own life?*
      (Max 200 words)


Throughout my academic career, I have cultivated respect for diverse thoughts and ideas, embracing the challenges of transitioning between six different schools across three cities. Every changeover from grade 3 to grade 12 required me to adapt to new environments, unknown customs, and different traditions and understand diverse viewpoints.  Navigating unfamiliar customs and traditions taught me to appreciate different perspectives while building resilience and adaptability.


For instance, when I joined a new school in grade 11, I actively participated in class, built relationships with new peers and teachers, and participated in various competitions. Just seven months after joining the school in grade 11, I won the National level Quiz competition (2023-24) as a student of International Indian School Dammam. This achievement highlighted my ability to thrive in new settings as I embraced these changes and became comfortable communicating with people from diverse backgrounds and leveraging our socialising skills.


These changes have significantly enhanced my communication and social skills, allowing me to connect with diverse individuals and appreciate their unique ideas. They have taught me perseverance and adaptability, deepening my respect for diversity and preparing me to contribute meaningfully to the inclusive and intellectually vibrant community at Caltech.  




   * Optional Short Answer Questions:[b]
   * If aspects of your life or social or personal identity are not captured elsewhere in this application, please tell us about them below. (Max: 150 words)


   * When not surveying the stars, peering through microscopes, or running through coding marathons, Caltech students pursue an eclectic array of interests that range from speed-cubing, reading, yoga, playing musical instruments and theater arts, to solving puzzles, hiking, painting, and building or inventing new gadgets. We understand that everyone needs an outlet or two.  What is a favorite interest or hobby, and why does it bring you joy? (Max 200 words)


   * Did you have a hard time narrowing it down to just one interest or hobby? We understand – Caltech students like to stay busy, too. Tell us about another hobby or interest! (Max: 150 words)
History was a subject that absolutely fascinated me since childhood. From reading books about a country’s past, to reading Wikipedia pages about historical facts, such as about historical places, or famous personalities and their families, I have done it all. The other day, I caught myself reading about Pitcairn Island’s history!


From how the Pharaohs of Egypt were mummified to the horrors of the 2nd World War, my quest to understand our world the way it was in the past is something insatiable. So, whenever I feel like taking a break from academics or my other career-related interests, I dive into and soak in the richness and diversity of the bygone era for the sheer pleasure of it!






   2. MIT


   * Tell us more about why this field of study at MIT appeals to you.* (100 words)
The idea of uncovering the countless opportunities that lie in space-exploration sparked a deep passion for me in the field. I founded a team named VisionCosmos to design miniaturized space-payloads, highlighting the need for expertise in electronics and computing.
MIT’s Bachelor of Science in Electrical & Computer Science perfectly aligns with my objectives. Courses in Nanoelectronics and Satellite Engineering would deepen my understanding of satellite-components, and sensors for data collection and orientation.
I aspire to lead a lunar-rover mission while at college. I am in talks with a Japanese commercial lunar-exploration company for this, and I wish to carry out the mission with students studying at MIT.




   * We know you lead a busy life, full of activities, many of which are required of you. Tell us about something you do simply for the pleasure of it.*
History was a subject that absolutely fascinated me since childhood. From reading books about a country’s past, to reading Wikipedia pages about historical facts, such as about historical places, or famous personalities and their families, I have done it all. The other day, I caught myself reading about Pitcairn Island’s history!


From how the Pharaohs of Egypt were mummified to the horrors of the 2nd World War, my quest to understand our world the way it was in the past is something insatiable. So, whenever I feel like taking a break from academics or my other career-related interests, I dive into and soak in the richness and diversity of the bygone era for the sheer pleasure of it!


(150 words or fewer)


Short Responses:
   * Your educational journey: While some reach their goals following well-trodden paths, others blaze their own trails achieving the unexpected. In what ways have you done something different than what was expected in your educational journey? (225 Words or Fewer)


I believe that I had a very different high-school journey than many students in my age group. While most students my age were dedicated only to academics and believed that professional life starts after you have completed your studies, I was an outliner; I gained professional experience, organising talks with several payload launch-providers and representatives of national-agencies, even before I completed my 11th-grade.
Being the founder of a group working on innovating and miniaturizing space-payloads is a path I made for myself which had not been pre-designed for me. It was all built on my own, and embarking on this unexplored path is something that, in my opinion, distinguished me from others.
Moreover, my efforts didn’t remain at forming a team; we at VisionCosmos launched a suborbital-payload, which became the first payload to be launched from Canada’s first private spaceport, Spaceport Nova Scotia. The payload was built entirely from scratch, and I was involved hands-on with its electronics connections, component layout, soldering, and programming. The project involved extensive collaboration between entities from three countries.
Through this payload-development process, and many others such as being a mentor at NASA’s Space Apps Challenge, I gained substantial professional experience, learnt networking, developed hardware skills regarding electronics and PCB-development, and much more.


Thus, I trust, I made my own path, a unique path, and followed upon it.


   * Contributing to your community: MIT brings people with diverse backgrounds together to collaborate, from tackling the world’s biggest challenges to lending a helping hand. Describe one way you have collaborated with others to learn from them, with them, or contribute to your community together.* (225 words or fewer)


My passion for space inspired me to start VisionCosmos, a team composed of students dedicated to space-sciences.
My work at VisionCosmos involved forming and leading teams, which provided an excellent opportunity to grow and learn. This experience was more than just about innovating space technology—this was a significant period in my growth as a leader and a collaborator. The most important part of my experience at VisionCosmos was the successful launch of our suborbital-payload from Spaceport Nova Scotia. In my leadership role, I led efforts to secure a launch-opportunity with launch providers such as Exos Aerospace, and several more, discussing payload-specifications and power-requirements with them. In addition to developing the payload, I was also heavily involved in collaborating with partners from Saudi Arabia, the UAE, and Canada. We faced the challenge of dealing with significant delays for the launch; we secured a launch-opportunity after almost eight-months of delays.


This experience taught me valuable skills and lessons that significantly enhanced my teamwork and ability to connect with others, highlighting how resilience and collaboration can turn challenges into triumphs. It has reinforced my commitment to innovation and collaboration in space-exploration.
Apart from several news-agencies which widely reported the launch and the payload, the Canadian Embassy in Saudi Arabia commended the innovation and collaboration.
References: https://financialpost.com/pmn/business-wire-news-releases-pmn/visioncosmos-saudi-arabia-maritime-launch-services-precious-payload-and-al-najmx-join-forces-for-groundbreaking-international-space-mission-aboard-arbalest-rocketrys-suborbital-vehicle-marking-f
 https://x.com/canembsa/status/1679516515857514500
Learning from challenges: How did you manage a situation or challenge that you didn’t expect? What did you learn from it?*
(225 words or fewer)
Everyone enjoys studying in one school, having constant friendships, and immersing themselves in a familiar routine. However, my challenge, caused due to my father's transferrable job, was moving through six different schools in two countries, with each change presenting its own unique challenges. Each transition has required adjusting to new environments and peer groups.
Looking ahead was difficult, as each new school brought new customs, and different traditions to navigate. A change of school environment and of classmates added to the challenge, often making me feel like an outsider in the classroom. Saying goodbye, after staying at a school for a very short time, is not the best memory.
On the bright side of things, these constant transitions helped me develop my academic resilience, cultivate skills, and learn the value of continuous effort to socialise and be independent.
Adapting to this continuous change became a moral in perseverance and adaptability. I learnt the importance of engaging with diverse groups of people and building new friendships—skills that are very important in any environment. So much so that I actually went ahead to represent the new schools at various prestigious events and won them awards within the short time I was a student there.
These qualities have become integral to my identity, proving invaluable as I pursue a career in engineering, where problem-solving and flexibility are essential.






   * Brown University (Done)
   1. Brown's Open Curriculum allows students to explore broadly while also diving deeply into their academic pursuits. Tell us about any academic interests that excite you, and how you might pursue them at Brown. (200-250 words)*[c]


 
The idea of uncovering the countless opportunities that lie in space-exploration sparked a deep passion for the field. Attending a webinar in 2021 featuring the CEO of a prominent satellite-development company based in India further fuelled my drive to assemble a passionate team to delve into space-sciences.
Studying Electrical Engineering at Brown University would help me pursue my ambition of studying, and developing advanced equipment for the space and communication fields, which would further human-advancement.
Developing my suborbital payload has led me to believe that learning more about electronics, computer, and material sciences would significantly enhance my ability to create advanced miniaturized-payloads for sub-orbit, orbit, lunar applications, and beyond. I am deeply interested in Brown University's multidisciplinary-approach, which would provide me an opportunity to combine electronics, with mathematics and computer science. I am also excited and looking forward to learning and researching at the Laboratory for Emerging Technologies, and the Therapeutic Micro and Nanotechnology Lab at Brown. Although the latter is a laboratory concerned with medical-science, my endeavour in technology-miniaturization could benefit significantly by learning about innovative miniaturized-technologies from the individuals working at the lab and also gaining priceless knowledge from their experiences at the lab working on miniaturized-technology. These opportunities would provide me with the necessary foundation that would help me develop critical insights into electronics, satellite components, and innovate by developing better alternatives to individual electronic components.


Thus, Brown University is the place for the manifestation of my goals of combining relevant fields and developing advanced miniaturized space-technology.






   2. Students entering Brown often find that making their home on College Hill naturally invites reflection on where they came from. Share how an aspect of your growing up has inspired or challenged you, and what unique contributions this might allow you to make to the Brown community. (200-250 words)*


Throughout my academic career, there have been various challenges, but one that tested my resilience, adaptability, and determination was the constant change of schools due to my father's transferable job. Shifting through six schools and studying in three different cities was difficult; the constant loss of classmates and teachers was not easy. Each transition has required adjusting to new environments, and peer groups.
Looking ahead was difficult; each new school brought unknown customs, and different traditions to navigate. However, I haven’t allowed this challenge to affect my academic achievements. Even after doing my 10th, 11th, and 12th grades all from different schools, I quickly adjusted to new environments by actively participating in class, fostering positive relationships with new classmates and teachers, participating in school-related competitions, and more. I won a national-level quiz competition (2023-24) representing International Indian School Dammam, just seven months after joining the school in grade 11. Similarly, I won first place as a Modern Middle East International School student at the Indian Embassy’s inter-school quiz competition in Riyadh six months after joining the school in 12th grade (2024-25).
These qualities have become integral to my identity, proving invaluable as I pursue a career in engineering, where problem-solving and flexibility are essential. Also, I believe my experiences will enable me to reach out to fellow students from across the globe who might be facing separation anxiety and homesickness. I look forward to being an empathetic classmate who can help make College Hill a home away from home.




   3. Brown students care deeply about their work and the world around them. Students find contentment, satisfaction, and meaning in daily interactions and major discoveries. Whether big or small, mundane or spectacular, tell us about something that brings you joy. (200-250 words)*




History was a subject that absolutely fascinated me since childhood. From reading books about a country’s past, to reading Wikipedia pages about historical facts, such as about historical places, or famous personalities and their families, I have done it all. The other day, I caught myself reading about Pitcairn Island’s history!


From how the Pharaohs of Egypt were mummified, the large empires which ‘were not made in a single day’, to the horrors of the 2nd World War, my quest to understand our world the way it was in the past is something insatiable.


I can very well relate my hobby of collecting coins and banknotes with my deep-rooted love for history; where coins from different places and different eras share a unique story. Amongst the collection, some of my favourite coins are the ones belonging to the past, currencies long gone. From the coins belonging to colonies of the British Empire to a coin whose origin is yet to be ascertained by me, I possess them all.


Thus, whenever I feel the need to take a break from academics or my other career-related interests, I enjoy walking down memory lane to soak in the richness and diversity of the world's bygone era for the sheer joy of it!




   4. Help us get to know you better by reflecting briefly on each of the questions below. We expect that answers will range from a few words to a few sentences at most.
   * What three words best describe you? (3 words)*
   * Unperturbed, meticulous, tenacious


Calm under pressure,personal ethics,wont get into gossip,not afraid to talk to anyone,precise and accurate


   * What is your most meaningful extracurricular commitment, and what would you like us to know about it? (100 words)*


I designed and developed a suborbital payload for VisionCosmos, a team I founded focused on space-sciences. Our payload was launched to collect primary atmospheric-data. It was also a technology-demonstration for our in-house built space-architecture, validating our payload design-and-assembly. The payload-development involved planning electronic components, designing circuit boards, and much more. It also involved collaborating with space-industry partners to facilitate the launch from Spaceport Nova Scotia, Canada. Apart from several news-agencies which reported the launch and the payload, the Canadian Embassy in Saudi Arabia commended the innovation and collaboration.
(https://financialpost.com/pmn/business-wire-news-releases-pmn/visioncosmos-saudi-arabia-maritime-launch-services-precious-payload-and-al-najmx-join-forces-for-groundbreaking-international-space-mission-aboard-arbalest-rocketrys-suborbital-vehicle-marking-f)
(https://x.com/canembsa/status/1679516515857514500)





   * If you could teach a class on any one thing, whether academic or otherwise, what would it be? (100 words)*


I would love to teach a class on ‘Space Exploration: the Past and Future Prospects’, a topic very close to my heart. In my class, I would focus on past human-missions, the spectacular achievements of the Apollo missions, landing a human on the moon with ingenuity and aided with technology so primitive compared to today; the latest smartphones being more than a thousand-times faster than the Apollo-11 guidance-system. I would also focus on the exploration of Mars and the Moon and how we could innovate current technologies to find and harness water, in its solid and liquid state, on them.




   * In one sentence, Why Brown? (50 words)*
   * Brown serves as a foundation for the academic community through its ethos of developing leaders of character dedicated to serving society. The opportunity to work at the Nanofabrication Central facility at Brown aligns perfectly with my professional ambition of gaining more experience with technology miniaturization and nanotechnology.




   * Emory University (Done)
   1. What academic areas are you interested in exploring at Emory University and why?* (200 words)


The idea of uncovering the countless opportunities that lie in space-exploration sparked a deep passion for the field. Attending a webinar in 2021 featuring the CEO of a prominent satellite-development company based in India further fuelled my drive to assemble a passionate team to delve into the world of space-sciences and technology.


Studying Engineering Sciences at Emory aligns perfectly with my goal to innovate in satellite technology. Fulfilling this goal requires a deeper understanding of electronics, physics, and geosciences. It is vital for designing efficient satellite systems tailored for miniaturization, understanding satellite-components and their functions, and creating reliable electronic layouts and connections to ensure optimal system-performance. This includes gaining expertise in electronic-components used in satellites, their functions, and applications and working with different microcontrollers and sensors for data collection. Additionally, a solid grasp of the subjects would improve my ability to program satellite subsystems, including optimising the data processing workflow and ensuring precise satellite-orientation, which is vital for the satellite’s survival in space. 


Emory’s rigorous engineering program with a possible minor in astrophysics aligns perfectly with my career goals.


   2. Please answer one of the following questions:* (150 words)
   * Which book, character, song, monologue, or other creative work (fiction or non-fiction) seems made for you? Why?
   * Reflect on a personal experience where you intentionally expanded your cultural awareness.
   * Emory University's core mission calls for service to humanity. Share how you might personally contribute to this mission.
   * Emory University has a strong commitment to building community. Tell us about a community you have been part of where your participation helped to change or shape the community for the better.
As stated above, my passion for space led me to found VisionCosmos, a team dedicated to exploring space-technology. This allowed me to design and develop a suborbital-payload for the team. On 6th July-2023, the payload was launched to collect primary atmospheric-data. It was also a technology-demonstration for our in-house built space-architecture, validating our payload-design and assembly. The payload-development involved planning electronic components, designing circuit boards, and coordinating with partners in the space-industry to facilitate the launch from Spaceport Nova Scotia, Canada. (https://financialpost.com/pmn/business-wire-news-releases-pmn/visioncosmos-saudi-arabia-maritime-launch-services-precious-payload-and-al-najmx-join-forces-for-groundbreaking-international-space-mission-aboard-arbalest-rocketrys-suborbital-vehicle-marking-f).


At VisionCosmos, not only have I been able to get like-minded individuals committed to space-sciences together, but through this community, we are also developing more miniaturized and, thus, cost-effective payloads. These will help advance life on Earth through STEM-education, understanding our planet's origin, and supporting the lunar-economy. This experience was more than just about space-technology—it was about forming teams, collaborating, and much more.


Georgia Tech (Done)
Why do you want to study your chosen major and why do you want to study your major at Georgia Tech?* (300 words)


The idea of uncovering the countless opportunities that lie in space exploration sparked a deep passion for the field. Attending a webinar in 2021 featuring the CEO of a prominent satellite-development company based in India further fuelled my drive to assemble a passionate team to delve into the world of space-sciences and technology.


Developing and launching my suborbital-payload has led me to believe that learning more about Electrical and Electronics engineering would significantly enhance my ability to create advanced payloads for suborbital flights, orbital, lunar applications, and beyond. This major would provide me with critical insights into electronic components used in satellites, their functions, applications, and alternatives to individual components depending on specific use cases, the last of which is essential considering my focus on miniaturization.


I aspire to work on a lunar communication constellation that will act as a relay-station for other lunar orbiters, landers, and rovers. Orbiters and landers, when they are on the ‘other side’ of a planetary-body, undergo a blackout as the planetary-body impedes communication. I aim to remove this barrier. Instead of landers and rovers carrying oversized radio transmitters and receivers, they can take more miniature transmitters and receivers to communicate with our constellation in the lunar-orbit. NASA tested this technology with the MARCO-CubeSats. I wish to expand on it and establish a sustainable constellation as an interplanetary relay-station.


Studying Electrical Engineering at Georgia Tech would help me pursue my ambition of studying, researching, and developing advanced equipment for the space and communication fields, which would further human-advancement. I look forward to taking advantage of the interweavable threads that the course offers and learning more about circuit technology and electronic-devices. I am also keen on participating Georgia Tech’s Educational Cooperative program, which would help me gather real-world experience and industry-experience while pursuing my undergraduate degree.








   * UPenn (Done)
   1. Write a short thank-you note to someone you have not yet thanked and would like to acknowledge. (We encourage you to share this note with that person, if possible, and reflect on the experience!) (150-200 words)*


Below is a thank-you note for one of my former-teachers, Mr. Mujeeb Khan sir. We shared this note with him, and his response included a line stating that I am one of the best students he has come across in years.


Mr Mujeeb Khan,
Science Teacher,
Dunes International School, Al Khobar


Dear Sir,
I'm unsure if you know this, but you have played a pivotal role in shaping me into who I am today.
My inherent love for science and space technology found its genesis in your classroom. Your nontraditional and innovative take on science made me curious and want to explore.
However, your unwavering trust has really brought out the best in me. You identified my capabilities and encouraged me to participate in competitions and events like the Government of India’s “National Children’s Science Congress”. Under your guidance, I won the “Most Promising Project” award nationwide. Your support and encouragement honed my public speaking skills, active participation in regional and national events (sports or science), and interpersonal skills.
 I am so grateful to have found a wonderful mentor like you, and am eager to pursue your vision of making science accessible and fun for all!


Your beloved student,
Belal






   2. How will you explore community at Penn? Consider how Penn will help shape your perspective, and how your experiences and perspective will help shape Penn. (150-200 words)


I designed and developed a suborbital payload for VisionCosmos, a team I founded focused on developing miniaturized space-technologies. On 6th July-2023 our payload was launched from Spaceport Nova Scotia-Canada, to collect primary atmospheric-data. (https://financialpost.com/pmn/business-wire-news-releases-pmn/visioncosmos-saudi-arabia-maritime-launch-services-precious-payload-and-al-najmx-join-forces-for-groundbreaking-international-space-mission-aboard-arbalest-rocketrys-suborbital-vehicle-marking-f).
It was also a technology demonstration for our in-house built space architecture, validating our payload design and assembly. The payload-development involved planning electronic components, designing circuit boards, and coordinating with partners in the space industry to facilitate the launch.
Through VisionCosmos, I have not only been able to get like-minded individuals committed to futuristic space-sciences together, but through this community, we are also making more advanced and cost-effective payloads. Besides the Electrical and Electronics community, I am keen to learn at the Singh Center for Nanotechnology at UPenn, and appreciate the wonders of the universe at the UPenn Campus Observatory while bringing together other space enthusiasts.
I look forward to contributing robustly to the university’s research and development initiatives, focusing on space-technology. I aspire to work on a lunar-rover mission while at college. I am in talks with a commercial lunar-exploration company for this, and it will be special for me to carry out the mission with students studying at UPenn.


   3. Penn Engineering prepares its students to become leaders in technology by combining a strong foundation in the natural sciences and mathematics with depth of study in focused disciplinary majors. Please share how you plan to pursue your engineering interests at Penn. (150-200 words)
The idea of uncovering the countless opportunities that lie in space-exploration sparked a deep passion for the field. Attending a webinar in 2021 featuring the CEO of a prominent satellite development company based in India further fuelled my drive to delve into the captivating world of space technology.
Electrical Engineering at UPenn would help me pursue my ambition of studying, researching, and developing advanced equipment for the space and communication fields, which would further human advancement through miniaturized-technologies, understanding our planet's origin, and supporting the future lunar-economy.


A solid grasp of Circuits and Computer engineering courses such as chip-design, Internet of Things, Machine Learning would provide me a foundation to design and program satellite-subsystems for data collection, processing and transmission units, which are vital for any satellite systems.
Courses in Nanodevices and Nanosystems would significantly help me to research and develop advanced miniaturized payloads for suborbital flights, orbital, lunar applications, and beyond. I plan to do my Design and Project Course in Nanofabrication of Electrical Devices. All these courses would provide me with critical insights in developing innovative and miniaturized satellite components, which are core to my interest.




   * Boston University (Done)
   1. Essay
Boston University is dedicated to our founding principles: “that higher education should be accessible to all and that research, scholarship, artistic creation, and professional practice should be conducted in the service of the wider community—local and international. These principles endure in the University’s insistence on the value of diversity in its tradition and standards of excellence and its dynamic engagement with the City of Boston and the world.”  With this mission in mind, please respond to one of the following two questions in 300 words or less *


   *  Reflect on a social or community issue that deeply resonates with you. Why is it important to you, and how have you been involved in addressing or raising awareness about it?




Whenever I visited my hometown in India, one thing I enjoyed a lot was looking out from the veranda, soaking in the twinkling stars across the calm and pristine night sky. This is one thing I missed severely in the hustle and bustle of the city, and this memory has stayed with me while I am a Dark Sky Advocate.


When I researched the topic, I realised that the slow and steady deterioration of the night sky was not merely an aesthetic issue. 


While playing the role of an advocate, I realised that the problem of night sky deterioration has more profound implications for human health, ecosystems, and cultural heritage.
Light pollution caused by excessive artificial lighting in our urban landscape has horrifying effects, such as adversely affecting the natural human sleep cycle and disorienting migrating species.


My ongoing work on space technology made me more aware of the intersection between science, technology, and sustainability. I was determined to make a difference in preserving nature.
My efforts began at a very basic level, with education and awareness. I organised sessions in school to explain how light pollution adversely affects our planet. These talks emphasised concepts like how to mitigate the damage caused by light pollution.


This journey has taught me that change can begin with a small but tangible step. I understand how collective efforts can make a difference. It could be something as small as requesting a neighbour to adjust his lights to avoid undirected and ineffective lighting, or as impactful as lobbying for policy changes.


As educated and conscious human beings, I believe we are in charge of preserving our planet's purity and beauty. I am eager to continue my advocacy for preserving one of humanity’s oldest friends, the night sky, at Boston University.




Penn State (Done)


Personal Statement (Optional)

This is your opportunity to share something about yourself that is not already reflected in your application or academic records. Tell us something about yourself, your experiences, or activities that you believe would reflect positively on your ability to succeed at Penn State.

While the Personal Statement is not required, it is highly encouraged. (650)
Something I believe is important to note in my application is a particular aspect of my school life, one that tested my resilience, adaptability, and determination. That aspect is the constant change in schools I had. Shifting through six schools and studying in three different cities was difficult; the constant loss of classmates and teachers was not easy. My first transition occurred between Grades 3 and 4 in 2016, followed by another shift between Grades 5 and 6 in 2018. The next move came shortly after, between Grades 6 and 7 in 2019. I transitioned from Grade 10 to 11 in 2023 and prepared for another change from Grade 11 to 12 in 2024. Each transition has required adjusting to new environments, peer groups, and school traditions, shaping me into a more flexible and open-minded learner.
Looking ahead was difficult; each new school brought new classmates, unknown customs, and different traditions to navigate. It was challenging to adapt to the uncertainty of these constant changes, but each experience taught me how to integrate quickly into new environments.
However, even after doing my 10th, 11th, and 12th grades from different schools, I quickly adjusted to new environments by actively participating in class, fostering positive relationships with new classmates and teachers, participating in school-related competitions, etc. I won the national-level Quiz competition (2023-24) as a student of International Indian School Dammam, just seven months after joining the school in grade 11. Similarly, I won first place as a Modern Middle East International School student at the Indian Embassy’s quiz competition in Riyadh six months after joining the school in 12th grade (2024-25).
I embraced these changes and became comfortable communicating with people in new environments. This experience significantly enhanced my communication and socialising skills.
Another aspect of my high school journey that I would like to mention is advocating for a dark sky, becoming a Dark Sky Advocate under Dark Sky International. Light pollution caused by excessive artificial lighting in our urban landscape has horrifying effects, such as disorienting migrating species and adversely affecting the natural human sleep cycle.
My ongoing work on space technology made me more aware of the intersection between science, technology, and sustainability. I was determined to make a difference by preserving nature.


My efforts began at a very basic level, focusing on education and awareness. I organised sessions in school to explain how light pollution adversely affects our planet. These talks emphasised crucial points such as the unimaginable damages caused by light pollution.


This journey has taught me that change can begin with a small but tangible step. I understand how collective efforts can make a difference. It could be something as small as requesting a neighbour to adjust his lights to avoid undirected and ineffective lighting, or as impactful as lobbying for policy changes.


As educated and conscious human beings, I believe we are in charge of preserving our planet's purity and beauty. I am eager to continue my advocacy for preserving one of humanity’s oldest friends, the night sky, at Penn State.


[a]This is optional and I dont think we should be writing this
[b]Hi Belal - We would not be writing these essays,but in case you would like to please go ahead.We will review them if required as long as we get these complete essays before 20th December 2024.
[c]Above word limit



Texas A & M: DEADLINE- DECEMBER 1
Tell us your story. What unique opportunities or challenges have you experienced throughout your high school career that have shaped who you are today?* Max: 750 words
Fascinated by India's Chandrayaan-2 lunar landing attempt, realising the immense vastness of the universe, and spellbound by its sheer magnitude, my journey in high school was filled with inquisitiveness and a quest to know more. This brought in the passion for space engineering, something which has strengthened into a greater ambition over time.
My passion for space led me to found VisionCosmos, a team initially made up of U.S. university students dedicated to exploring space technology. This allowed me to work on a suborbital payload project, built from custom-selected electronic components to reach our goal of maximum technology miniaturization.
The biggest challenge was the lack of guidance for integrating the custom-selected components. Reflecting on and learning from my past experiences with electronics helped me troubleshoot and build everything from scratch, thus developing skills in electronics architecture, circuit board design, and miniaturisation along the way.
My quest for knowledge made my parents think of pushing me and encouraging me to pick up a few courses and participate in various events and competitions related to space technology, further fuelling my enthusiasm and commitment to this path. This hunt of mine is what helped me collaborate internationally to launch a suborbital payload of mine from Spaceport Nova Scotia in July 2023. I have found that making connections with various facilitators across numerous regions taught me the spirit of perseverance and the value of teamwork and patience, as it’s not just science but collaboration at its core when we think of engineering. This engagement also taught me how to deal with the technicalities and complexities of real-world engineering, the style of global communication, logistics hurdles, and how important is the alignment of thoughts on shared goals.
 
The thought of kickstarting the journey of making space technology smaller and making it more affordable posed a challenge. Cost-effectiveness is a big aspect of working in space tech. To address this pressing issue of the industry, we focussed our attention on miniaturization of space technology. 

This experience was more than just about advancing space technology—it was about growing as a leader. Among other key lessons I learnt from this experience were perseverance, diligence, patience, communication, and networking. I am eager to develop the skills I developed with this experience further, knowing they will be essential for leading future breakthroughs in this exciting field.

The above experiences triggered my passion for space technology and shaped me as an individual and the kind of engineer I would like to become. I’m sure what I learned from VisionCosmos will help me advance in the field of space design and development and push the boundaries of exploration.  The time I spent working on payload development taught me to work under challenging conditions and understand space technology's intricacies, thus pushing me to explore beyond the boundaries and contribute meaningfully to space exploration.
 
 

Describe a life event which you feel has prepared you to be successful in college.*  Max: 250 words

One life event that has prepared me for success in college is my experience as the founder and leader of VisionCosmos— a student-led team dedicated to exploring space technology. As a founder, I have gained many valuable skills that have significantly shaped my ability to connect with others throughout this journey. It has also deepened my understanding of team dynamics and enhanced my team-building skills. My experience at VisionCosmos has gave me better communication skills, learning to express ideas clearly. This experience has also been instrumental in honing my skills in team-building, networking, and perseverance. Most importantly, I have developed greater perseverance, navigating challenges calmly and thoughtfully.
Managing a technical project allowed me to develop my technical and organisational skills. Beyond the technical aspects of the payload, the launch involved extensive collaboration between Saudi Arabia, the UAE, and Canada.  I contacted several launch facilitators, including Exos Aerospace in the US, Skyroot in India, the Swedish Space Corporation, and Spaceport Nova Scotia to secure a launch opportunity. I faced the significant challenge of securing a launch opportunity, which resulted in considerable delays. It took almost eight months to finalize a launch plan. This project was a crucial step toward achieving my goal of working on orbital and lunar satellites. It taught me the valuable lesson that persistence leads to opportunities.


Tell us about the person who has most impacted your life and why.* Max: 250 words

The person who has most impacted me in my life is Mr. Mujeeb Khan. He was my Science teacher at Dunes International School, Al Khobar.

Being a highly respected person in the school, his constant support to students was unparalleled. His trust in me allowed me to grow in that school. He understood my capabilities and would be ready to inform me whenever there were various opportunities to participate in, such as competitions and events. Under his guidance, I participated in the Government of India’s “National Children’s Science Congress” for three years in a row, once winning the ‘Most Promising Project’ award nationwide. His continuous guidance and coordination during the annual Zonal and Cluster sports meet also helped extensively as a participant in the events and as the school's sports captain. He would update us about the upcoming events and their details and provide us with any other required information.

Something I can say decisively is that his support for me significantly helped me grow into what I am today. His support and encouragement honed my public speaking skills, active participation in regional and national events (sports or science), and interpersonal skills.


If additional personal challenges, hardships, or opportunities (including COVID-related experiences) have shaped or impacted your abilities or academic credentials, which you have not already written about, please note them in the space below. Max: 250 words

Throughout my academic career, there have been various challenges but one which tested my resilience, adaptability, and determination is the constant change of schools due to my father's transferable job. Shifting through 6 schools and studying in 3 different cities was a difficult task; the constant loss of classmates and teachers was not easy.  Each of these transitions has required adjusting to new environments, curricula, and peer groups.
Looking ahead was not easy, as each new school brought new classmates, unknown customs, and different traditions to navigate. However, even after doing my 10th, 11th, and 12th grades all from different schools, I quickly adjusted to new environments by actively participating in class, fostering positive relationships with new classmates and teachers, participating in school-related competitions, etc. I won a national-level quiz competition for International Indian School Dammam and an Indian-embassy-organized quiz competition for Modern Middle East International School, less than 8 months after joining each of these schools.
I embraced these changes in schools and became comfortable communicating with people in new environments. This verified my academic resilience and taught me the value of continuous effort to socialise. Adapting to this continuous academic change became a moral in perseverance and adaptability. This challenge of my life shaped me into a more flexible and open-minded learner.
Why have you chosen to apply to Texas A&M University?  Max: 50 words
 Texas A&M serves as a foundation for the academic community through its ethos of developing leaders of character dedicated to serving society. This aligns perfectly with my personal and professional vision. I wish to be a part of this respected University for its incredible academic programs and campus culture. 
Why have you chosen your academic major(s)?   Max: 50 words    Electrical and Computer Engineering https://engineering.tamu.edu/electrical/index.html


Studying Electrical and Computer Engineering at Texas A&M would help me pursue my ambition of researching and developing advanced equipment for the space and communication fields, leading to human advancement. A grasp of computer engineering would facilitate programming satellite subsystems, including the data collection process and satellite orientation.
Briefly describe any educational plans you have beyond earning your bachelor’s degree. Max: 50 words
Beyond earning my bachelor’s degree, I intend to pursue my Master's in space engineering, followed by a PhD to gain expertise in satellite systems and payload design, allowing me to explore the intricacies of space technology. I aim to contribute to innovative space exploration projects that expand human knowledge.


What are some of your life goals and objectives?  Max: 50 words
Education is the most powerful weapon you can use to change the world. Thus, my goal includes connecting with like-minded individuals worldwide and utilising my space engineering expertise from VisionCosmos. I aim to inspire young scientists to collaborate technical skills with resilience and creativity in space engineering.


Describe an example of your leadership. Be sure to describe your actions and the actions of those around you and to explain what you accomplished. Max: 550 words
My passion for space inspired me to start VisionCosmos, a team originally composed of students dedicated to exploring space technology, which ultimately led to my most meaningful leadership experience: working on a suborbital payload project. As the founder of VisionCosmos, exploring exciting possibilities positioned me at the forefront of innovation and offered me valuable opportunities to improve my leadership and collaboration skills. I engaged in extensive research, tackled technical problem-solving, and connected with several launch providers, all while ensuring strong collaboration dynamics. This endevour of leading VisionCosmos allowed me to work on a suborbital payload initiative, when I built a suborbital payload from scratch, handling electronic connections, component layout, soldering, and programming.
I began working on the payload by researching the components needed to build a suborbital payload. This was honestly one of the most enjoyable parts of the entire payload-building process, given the fact that it combines two of my biggest interests, space sciences and electronics. For me, this was a stepping stone towards more complex endeavours.
Among the most significant challenges I faced while building our payload was the unavailability of a guide on integrating our components. The components we used were customised to our needs (such as dimensions and mass goals we set for ourselves) and thus were unique to our case. It was mostly past learnings and experiences that we had to apply to sort our way through this issue. We learned from our past electronics systems and troubleshooted connections for individual components. This required a research approach, where we brainstormed, troubleshot, and tested different configurations and codes for the payload.


The amount being spent is a big aspect of working in space tech. Lowering the costs involved with building and launching space tech was a challenge; if we could do so, we would be the pioneers in space exploration. I knew reducing building costs and launching space technology could open new frontiers for exploration. Thus, as a founder of VisionCosmos, exploring these exciting possibilities has put me at the forefront. Thus providing me with an opportunity to build leadership skills.  
My work at VisionCosmos involved forming and leading teams, which provided an excellent opportunity to grow, learn, and experience. This experience was more than just about advancing space technology—this was a significant period in my growth as a leader. My experience with VisionCosmos has been a dream come true, especially with the successful launch of our suborbital payload, VCL-1, from Spaceport Nova Scotia in 2023. In my leadership role, I was heavily involved in developing the payload and collaborating with partners from Saudi Arabia, the UAE, and Canada. I engaged with multiple launch providers to discuss payload specifications and power requirements. In doing so, I led efforts to secure a launch opportunity with providers such as Exos Aerospace, Skyroot, Swedish Space Corporation, and Spaceport Nova Scotia. Additionally, this journey has reinforced my commitment to innovation and collaboration in space exploration.


Please provide information for all children under 25 years of age in your family (other than yourself). Include the following information for each person listed below: Name, Age, School/College/Occupation, Year in College (If Applicable), and indicate if this person is self supporting (Yes/No). Max: 150 words

There are two children in the home, other than me, who are under 25 years of age. They are both my siblings.

The first among them is my younger brother, Ibraheem Mudassar Sayed. He is 15 years old and studies in grade 10 at Modern Middle East International School, Riyadh. He is not self-supporting.

The second is my younger sister, Zainab Mudassar Sayeda. She is 13 years old and in grade 8 at Modern Middle East International School, Riyadh. She is not self-supporting.


UT Austin:    DEADLINE- DECEMBER 1

Why are you interested in the major you indicated as your first-choice major? Please limit your response to 250-300 words.*https://cockrell.utexas.edu/academics/electrical-and-computer-engineering
The idea of uncovering the countless opportunities to capture the immense beauty of the sky left me pondering the untapped potential, sparking a deep passion for space exploration. Attending a webinar in 2021 featuring the CEO of a prominent satellite development company based in India further fueled my drive to assemble a passionate team to delve into the captivating world of space sciences and technology.
Studying Electrical & Computer Engineering at UT Austin would help me pursue my ambition of studying, researching, and developing advanced equipment for the space and communication fields, which would further human advancement.
Developing my suborbital payload has led me to believe that learning more about electronics would significantly enhance my ability to create advanced payloads for suborbital flights, orbit, lunar applications, and beyond. This major would provide me with critical insights into satellite components, their functions, and applications, as well as alternatives to individual components depending on specific use cases, which is essential considering my focus on miniaturization.
Moreover, a particular aspect that I am deeply interested in is Purdue University's course on Fundamentals of Nanoelectronics and Semiconductors and Microelectronics, which will directly support my goal of miniaturizing space technology.
 
A solid grasp of computer engineering would also improve my ability to program satellite subsystems, including the data collection process and satellite orientation, which are vital for the satellite’s survival in space.



Think of all the activities — both in and outside of school — that you have been involved with during high school. Which one are you most proud of and why? (Guidance for students: This can include an extracurricular activity, a club/organization, volunteer activity, work or a family responsibility.) Please limit your response to 250-300 words.*  

My growing passion for space led me to start VisionCosmos, a team focused on building miniaturised space technology. Our members, primarily US university students, initially joined while in school in Saudi Arabia. Founding VisionCosmos has been hugely instrumental in honing my skills in team-building, communication, networking, and perseverance. We are currently conceptualizing a lunar communication constellation using PocketQubes. Our most significant achievement, of course, was launching our suborbital payload, VCL-1, from Spaceport Nova Scotia last year. We can now move forward with more advanced payloads thanks to the lessons learned during the payload development and collaboration phases. These will help advance life on Earth through electronics and space-resilient technologies, STEM education, understanding our planet's origin, and supporting the future lunar economy. 
And this is exactly the activity that I am most proud of -  launching my suborbital payload. As a mere high school student, this accomplishment initially seemed beyond reach! Like the one we launched, a suborbital payload is used to conduct scientific experiments in microgravity or harsh environments. Apart from the technical aspects of the payload, the launch involved extensive collaborative efforts between Saudi Arabia, UAE, and Canada. The payload was built entirely from scratch, and I was involved hands-on with the payload’s electronics connections, components layout, soldering, and programming. To get a launch opportunity, I contacted several launch facilitators, such as Exos Aerospace of the US, Skyroot of India, Swedish Space Corporation, and Spaceport Nova Scotia. I faced the challenge of securing a launch opportunity and dealing with significant delays. It took almost eight months to ensure a launch opportunity. This project was a crucial step toward my goal of working on orbital and lunar satellites. This experience taught me the valuable lesson that persistence leads to opportunities.

Please share background on events or special circumstances that you feel may have impacted your high school academic performance. If your response to this question is similar to one of the Common App Personal Essays, feel free to simply copy and paste the important parts of your essay here. Please limit your response to 250-300 words.


Throughout my academic career, there have been various challenges, but one that tested my resilience, adaptability, and determination was the constant change in schools. Shifting through 6 schools and studying in 3 different cities was difficult; the constant loss of classmates and teachers was not easy. My first transition occurred between Grades 3 and 4 in 2016, followed by another shift between Grades 5 and 6 in 2018. The next move came shortly after, between Grades 6 and 7 in 2019. I transitioned from Grade 10 to 11 in 2023 and prepared for another change from Grade 11 to 12 in 2024. Each transition has required adjusting to new environments, curricula, and peer groups, shaping me into a more flexible and open-minded learner.
Looking ahead was not easy, as each new school brought new classmates, unknown customs, and different traditions to navigate. It was challenging to adapt to the uncertainty of these constant changes, but each experience taught me how to integrate quickly into new environments.
However, even after doing my 10th, 11th, and 12th grades from different schools, I quickly adjusted to new environments by actively participating in class, fostering positive relationships with new classmates and teachers, participating in school-related competitions, etc. I won the national-level Quiz competition (2023-24) as a student of International Indian School Dammam, just seven months after joining the school in grade 11. Similarly, I won first place as a Modern Middle East International School student at the Indian Embassy’s quiz competition in Riyadh six months after joining the school in 12th grade (2024-25).
I embraced these changes and became comfortable communicating with people in new environments. This experience significantly enhanced my communication and socialising skills.



Describe your significant activities, employment, and achievements, particularly those relevant to the study of Electrical and Computer Engineering. Also describe your educational and career goals. Please limit your response to no more than 500 words.*
Space engineering is incomplete without Electrical and Computer Engineering. My passion for space engineering ranges from exploring the cosmos to successfully launching suborbital payloads. I started working on the payload by researching the components involved in building a suborbital payload. This was among the most fun parts of the entire payload-building process, as I have a passion for electronics almost equal to my passion for space sciences. The payload was built completely from scratch, and I had developed the entire payload’s electronics connections, components layout, soldering, and programming.
Given my passion for working on orbital and lunar satellites, the first step to getting there was a technology demonstration on a smaller level, which was a suborbital launch. Among the biggest challenges, I faced while building our payload was the unavailability of a guide on integrating our components. Many of the parts we used were customized for our specific needs regarding dimensions and functions, making them unique to our project.
We learned from our past electronics systems and troubleshooted connections for individual components. Additionally, coding for the components was complex, likely because we were the first to use these specific components together. Some important skills I developed during the payload-building process were electronics architecture and circuit board designing, experience with miniaturising technologies, and securing launch opportunities for space payloads.
In addition, I explored advanced concepts in embedded systems, which involved programming microcontrollers to perform specific tasks within our payload. This experience allowed me to bridge the gap between hardware and software, ensuring seamless communication between the electronic components. I also delved into power management techniques, which are crucial in optimising the energy efficiency of our systems, especially in space applications.
This journey is profoundly significant to me, as I have nurtured a lifelong fascination with electronics and space sciences. I have always had an interest in electronics and space sciences. Working on the hardware of technology and programming combines two passions of mine My enthusiasm for electronics matches my love for space sciences, making this experience particularly fulfilling
ROBOTICS PROGRAM INTEREST (REQUIRED) 
Why are you interested in robotics? How will this undergraduate robotics program help you achieve your personal and/or career goals? What impact do you hope to make in the field of robotics?
Please limit your response to 500 words.*
I have always been interested in robotics since childhood. It has always fascinated me.
I find it a way to convert my thoughts and plans into actions- if I imagine a particular system or electronic device, robotics helps me materialize it into something realistic. Without actually putting together the electronics, the plans/thoughts stay just in mind or on paper.
An example of this is my several projects, especially a project I presented at the national-level science exhibition (Cluster Meet 2023-24) and the many iterations of my suborbital payload.
This undergraduate robotics program will help me get a stronger experience with robotics and have more experience with the theory and hardware of the field.
Moreover, it would introduce me to more electronic components, many of which I would have not worked with before.
This interaction with new components is crucial to my interests in space engineering - this is a field that has continuous updates in terms of technology and thus being aware of an array of electronic components plays into benefit. Moreover, only being aware of these components is not enough, one needs to be used to operating them. This also something that this program can offer.
The impact I aim to have in the field of robotics is further miniaturization of technology - something that will benefit a wide range of fields where the applications of robotics are employed, such as IoT devices.



UC:  DEADLINE- DECEMBER 2
Please respond to any 4 of the 8 questions below. We realize that not all questions apply to all applicants, so be sure to select the 4 questions that you believe give us the best information about you. All 8 questions are given equal consideration in the application review process. Responses to each question should be between 250-350 words.
Describe an example of your leadership experience in which you have positively influenced others, helped resolve disputes, or contributed to group efforts over time. 
My passion for space inspired me to start VisionCosmos, a team originally composed of students dedicated to exploring space technology, which ultimately led to my most meaningful leadership experience. This project allowed me to work on a suborbital payload initiative, which pushed me to develop my leadership skills. As the founder of VisionCosmos, exploring exciting possibilities positioned me at the forefront of innovation and offered me valuable opportunities to improve my leadership skills. I engaged in extensive research, tackled technical problem-solving, and connected with several launch providers, all while ensuring strong collaboration dynamics.
I began working on the payload by researching the components needed to build a suborbital payload.  This was honestly one of the most enjoyable parts of the entire payload-building process, given the fact that it combines two of my biggest interests, space sciences and electronics. For me, this was a stepping stone towards more complex endeavours.
Among the most significant challenges I faced while building our payload was the unavailability of a guide on integrating our components. The components we used were customised to our needs (such as dimensions and mass goals we set for ourselves) and thus were unique to our case. It was mostly past learnings and experiences that we had to apply to sort our way through this issue. We learned from our past electronics systems and troubleshooted connections for individual components. This required a research approach, where we brainstormed, troubleshot, and tested different configurations and codes for the payload.
Moreover, my work at VisionCosmos involved forming and leading teams, which provided an excellent opportunity to grow, learn, and experience. This experience was more than just about advancing space technology—it was about growing as a leader. I am eager to develop these skills further, knowing they will be essential for leading future breakthroughs in this exciting field. My experience with VisionCosmos has been a dream come true, especially with the successful launch of our suborbital payload, VCL-1, from Spaceport Nova Scotia in 2023. In my leadership role, I was heavily involved in developing the payload and collaborating with partners from Saudi Arabia, the UAE, and Canada. I engaged with multiple launch providers to discuss payload specifications and power requirements. This journey has reinforced my commitment to innovation and collaboration in space exploration.


Every person has a creative side, and it can be expressed in many ways: problem solving, original and innovative thinking, and artistically, to name a few. Describe how you express your creative side.
 My creative side is expressed through a blend of innovation, problem-solving skills, and exploration in the field of space technology. I enjoy discovering the fascinating realm of this field, where every challenge presents an opportunity for inventive solutions and groundbreaking discoveries. 


One achievement that has significantly shaped my character and ambitions is successfully launching my suborbital payload. Suborbital payloads have proven invaluable for conducting experiments in microgravity and harsh environments and testing novel technologies before they are sent into orbit. I began this project by researching the components needed to build a suborbital payload. This phase was one of the most enjoyable parts of the process. It was my creativity and design skills employed in this phase that ultimately led to the success of the payload. Here, I showcased my creativity by designing satellite components that met technical specifications and were optimised for weight and stability—crucial factors in space engineering and crucial aspects of our aim of miniaturization.


My experience and learnings from VisionCosmos will help me advance in the field of space design and development, pushing the boundaries of exploration. The time I spent working on payload development taught me how to operate under challenging conditions and understand the intricacies of space technology, motivating me to explore beyond conventional limits and contribute meaningfully to space exploration.


What would you say is your greatest talent or skill? How have you developed and demonstrated that talent over time? 


Nothing in life is more important than the ability to communicate effectively. If one just communicates, you can get by. But if one communicates skillfully, you can work miracles. I’ve come to understand that effective communication does not simply occur by chance; rather, it is a cultivated skill that demands dedication and effort to forge genuine connections. My determination to push boundaries in pursuit of knowledge and experience sets me apart. I refuse to let my age act as a barrier in my interactions with professionals in the space industry, which has allowed me to build meaningful connections within several institutions, including multiple government entities, and companies.


During the journey of my suorbital-payload-building process, I faced the challenge of securing a launch opportunity and encountered significant delays. It took almost eight months to ensure a launch opportunity. Despite the long wait, I persevered and continued to reach out to various companies such as Exos Aerospace of the US, Skyroot of India, Swedish Space Corporation, and Spaceport Nova Scotia, explaining our requirements.


When dealing with hardships, I actively seek advice from experienced individuals and highly value learning from the experience of others. I realised each interaction enhances my understanding and equips me with insights that help me navigate challenges more effectively. Through perseverance and a commitment to continual learning, I have grown as a communicator and a professional ready to tackle the complexities of the space industry.




Describe the most significant challenge you have faced and the steps you have taken to overcome this challenge. How has this challenge affected your academic achievement?
Throughout my academic career, there have been various challenges but one which tested my resilience, adaptability, and determination is the constant change of schools due to my father's transferable job. Shifting through 6 schools and studying in 3 different cities was a difficult task; the constant loss of classmates and teachers was not easy.  Each of these transitions has required adjusting to new environments, curricula, and peer groups.
Looking ahead was not easy, as each new school brought new classmates, unknown customs, and different traditions to navigate. However, even after doing my 10th, 11th, and 12th grades all from different schools, I quickly adjusted to new environments by actively participating in class, fostering positive relationships with new classmates and teachers, participating in school-related competitions, etc. I won a national-level Quiz competition (2023-24) as a student of International Indian School Dammam, just seven months after joining the school in grade 11. Similarly, I won first place as a Modern Middle East International School student at the Indian Embassy’s quiz competition in Riyadh six months after joining the school in 12th grade (2024-25).
These qualities have become integral to my identity, proving invaluable as I pursue a career in engineering, where problem-solving and flexibility are essential.








Beyond what has already been shared in your application, what do you believe makes you a strong candidate for admissions to the University of California? My passion, an enthusiasm for what I do, socially in what I aspire to contribute to the UC community by developing space tech at the university.
I have won innumerable awards and have been a part of really amazing competitions but what sets me apart is my passion and enthusiasm for what I do, socially in what I aspire to contribute to the UC community by developing space tech at the university. I aspire to revolutionize in this field while nurturing collaboration and exploration within the university setting. My goal is to inspire others and create a lasting impact through my dedication to this exciting area of study.
 


